Queue load balancing and batch processing system

August 13, 1998

W. G. Krebs <wkrebs@gnu.org>

HISTORY
-------

Version 0.10a 

Circa 1994

In-house alpha version original designed as a simple replacement to
rsh for a homogeneous cluster of HP-UX hosts in order to do load
balancing over the network. The stub mechanism and pty mechanisms,
allowing users to background and foreground remote jobs by
backgrounding and foregrounding the daemon/stub, was already firmly in
place in this version. Queue placed files into a single directory,
which was then monitored and run by the queued.

The version was alpha tested by over 20 users in a development
environment. 

Version 0.20a

Circa 1995

In response to user requests for better control of batch capabilities,
queue was merged with the apparently non-copyrighted,
'freely-redistributable' batch suite of Alex White 'and many others.'
Specifically, code from batchd now monitored multiple directory
queues, imposing limits (such as load average requirements, maximum
number of jobs in each queue, priorities, etc) on jobs run in batch
processing mode. Batchd was modified to accept jobs from queue and
spawn jobs via a modified queued rather than directly. In addition, a
command was added to support the new mutliple-host environment and
allow conditions (such as load average restrictions, maximum number of
jobs) to specified different for different hosts in the cluster from
the same configuration file.

This version was again alpha tested by over 20 users in a development
environment. 

Version 0.21a

August, 1998

Queue was ported to Linux with minor modifications to support this new
environment and release in alpha version to the general public under a
GPL agreement.

Version 0.22b

August, 1998

Upgraded to beta after large numbers of downloads without bug reports (I know
there are bugs left. :-) But, the code is obviously usable. )

Fixed Makefile install bugs :-) Added uninstall option.

Increased SLEEPTIME to 120 to work better on larger clusters.

Added setuid() in queue to correspond to principle of least privilege;
also allows users to send queue signals via KILL instead of just via
the keyboard (I.e., this was a bugfix) :-)

Added Solaris support courtesy of Igor Schein.

Minor changes to documentation.
